MTV-813: MTV 2.6.0: release notes (#500)
kubev2v/forklift-documentation: documentation/modules/rn-2.6.adoc

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Data Center is nested inside a folder

In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM that is placed in a Data Center that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded. However, it failed when the Data Center was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

.The OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects files changes, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when the migration failed to build the PVC when the destination storage class did not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lacked clear information to identify the reason for the failure. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when the migration failed to build the PVC when the destination storage class did not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lacked clear information to identify the reason for the failure. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

```

.Creating a host secret requires validation of the secret before creation of the host

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when configuring a transfer network for vSphere hosts, the console plugin created the `Host` CR before creating its secret. The secret should be specified first in order to validate it before the `Host` CR is posted. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.When adding OVA provider a `ConnectionTestFailed` message appears

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Data Center is nested inside a folder

In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM that is placed in a Data Center that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded. However, it failed when the Data Center was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

.The OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects files changes, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when the migration failed to build the PVC when the destination storage class did not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lacked clear information to identify the reason for the failure. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

> 

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, an earlier failed migration could have left an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase did not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

```

//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

.Migration from vSphere over a secure connection

You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the server that runs vCenter or ESXi, depending on the specified SDK endpoint of the vSphere provider. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530[(MTV-530)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530%5B(MTV-530)%5D)

.Migration from an ESXi server without going through vCenter

MTV enables the SDK endpoint of ESXi for a vSphere provider. You need to select ESXi as the Endpoint type and specify the URL of the SDK of the ESXi server. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514[(MTV-514)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514%5B(MTV-514)%5D)

.Migration of image-based VMs from {osp}

{project-short} supports migration of VMs that were created from images in {osp}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644[(MTV-644)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644%5B(MTV-644)%5D)

.Migration of VMs with Fibre Channel LUNs from {rhv}

{project-short} supports migrations of VMs that are set with Fibre Channel (FC) LUNs from {rhv}. As with other LUN disks, you need to ensure the {ocp-name} nodes have access to the FC LUNs. During the migrations, the FC LUNs are detached from the source VMs in {rhv} and attached to the migrated VMs in {ocp-name}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659[(MTV-659)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659%5B(MTV-659)%5D)

.Preserve CPU types of VMs that are migrated from {rhv}

{project-short} sets the CPU type of migrated VMs in {ocp-name} with their custom CPU type in {rhv}, if a custom CPU type is set for a VM. In addition, a new option was added to migration plans that are set with {rhv} as a source provider to preserve the original CPU types of VMs that are migrated from {rhv}. When this option is selected, {project-short} identifies the CPU type that would be set based on the cluster configuration and sets this CPU type for the migrated VMs, unless a custom CPU is set. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-547[(MTV-547)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-547%5B(MTV-547)%5D)

```

.The VM is posted with its desired `Running` state

{project-short} creates the VM with its desired `Running` state on the target provider, instead of creating the VM and then running it as an additional operation. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]

> == New features and enhancements

Author: added

.Guest operating system from vSphere might be missing

When vSphere does not receive updates about the guest operating system from the VMware tools, it considers the information about the guest operating system to be outdated and ceases to report it. When this occurs, {project-short} is unaware of the guest operating system of the VM and is unable to associate it with the appropriate virtual machine preference or {ocp-name} template. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1046[(MTV-1046)]

.{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes when receiving a disk without a datastore

In some rare cases, the VM may be configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. MTV gets such disks without their datastore. Previously, the `forklift-controller` crashed in this situation, rendering {project-short} unusable. In {project-short} 2.6.0, {project-short} presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks, and the `forklift-controller` no longer crashes. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]

> 

Author: ```suggestion

.Failure to migrate an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project

The migration process fails when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]
```

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, in some rare cases, the VM was configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. In this situation, the `forklift-controller` crashed, rendering {project-short} unusable, as {project-short} was receiving such disks without their datastore. In {project-short} 2.6.0, {project-short} presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks, and the `forklift-controller` no longer crashes. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]

Author: ```suggestion
In some rare cases, the VM may be configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. MTV gets such disks without their datastore. Previously, the `forklift-controller` crashed in this situation, rendering {project-short} unusable. In {project-short} 2.6.0, {project-short} presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks, and the `forklift controller` no longer crashes. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]
```

{project-short} creates the VM with its desired `Running` state on the target provider, instead of creating the VM and then running it as an additional operation. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

.Migration from vSphere over a secure connection

You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the server that runs vCenter or ESXi, depending on the specified SDK endpoint of the vSphere provider. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530[(MTV-530)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530%5B(MTV-530)%5D)

.Migration from an ESXi server without going through vCenter

MTV enables the SDK endpoint of ESXi for a vSphere provider. You need to select ESXi as the Endpoint type and specify the URL of the SDK of the ESXi server. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514[(MTV-514)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514%5B(MTV-514)%5D)

.Migration of image-based VMs from {osp}

{project-short} supports migration of VMs that were created from images in {osp}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644[(MTV-644)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644%5B(MTV-644)%5D)

.Migration of VMs with Fibre Channel LUNs from {rhv}

{project-short} supports migrations of VMs that are set with Fibre Channel (FC) LUNs from {rhv}. As with other LUN disks, you need to ensure the {ocp-name} nodes have access to the FC LUNs. During the migrations, the FC LUNs are detached from the source VMs in {rhv} and attached to the migrated VMs in {ocp-name}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659[(MTV-659)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659%5B(MTV-659)%5D)

.Preserve CPU types of VMs that are migrated from {rhv}

{project-short} sets the CPU type of migrated VMs in {ocp-name} with their custom CPU type in {rhv}, if a custom CPU type is set for a VM. In addition, a new option was added to migration plans that are set with {rhv} as a source provider to preserve the original CPU types of VMs that are migrated from {rhv}. When this option is selected, {project-short} identifies the CPU type that would be set based on the cluster configuration and sets this CPU type for the migrated VMs, unless a custom CPU is set. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-547[(MTV-547)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-547%5B(MTV-547)%5D)

```

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage class of type `hostPath`

When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, it might happen that a VM cannot be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Warm migrations do not support guest operating systems

Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation.
See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system can start with network interfaces that are down

When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

> .Leftover `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes the plan to stop in the `CopyDisks` phase
> 
> An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Data Center is nested inside a folder

In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM that is placed in a Data Center that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded. However, it failed when the Data Center was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

.The OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects files changes, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when the migration failed to build the PVC when the destination storage class did not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lacked clear information to identify the reason for the failure. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, the error logs lacked clear information to identify the reason for a failure to create a PV on a destination storage class that does not have a configured storage profile. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]
```

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for {a-rhv-short}, {osp}, and {ocp-name} providers now. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

.Validation rules are now available for OVA

The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

> [id="known-issues-26_{context}"]

Author: @ahadas - is static ips not preserved also an issue?

FYI @liranr23

Reviewer: @anarnold97 I'm not sure
on the one hand, yes, it's something that we don't yet have a solution for
on the other hand, MTV requires mapping a network to another network - I wouldn't expect users to think that static IPs are preserved by default, in that case it's more like a missing feature than a known issue

after writing the above, I wouldn't document it as a known issue because later it would need to be a resolved issue while I'd prefer to document keeping static IPs as a new feature when it's introduced

Author: Cool

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]

.Migration of a VM with NVME disks from vSphere fails

When migrating a virtual machine (VM) with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails, and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

.Importing image-based VMs can fail

Migrating an image-based VM without the `virtual_size` field can fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-946)]

> .Deleting migration plan does not remove temporary resources

Author: ```suggestion
.Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources
```

Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it to clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

> .Migrating VMs with independent persistent disk from VMware to OCP-V fail
> 
> Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disk from VMware to OCP-V fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]

Author: ```suggestion
.Migrating VMs with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fail

Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]
```

> .Migrating VMs with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fail
> 
> Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]

Author: ```suggestion
.Migrating VMs with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fails

Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]
```

> .Migrating VMs with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fails
> 
> Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]

Author: ```suggestion
.Migrating VMs with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fails

Migrating VMs with independent persistent disks from VMware to OCP-V fails. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]
```

> .Migrating VM from one OCP-V cluster to another using timeouts and fails

Author: ```suggestion
.Migrating VMs from one OCP-V cluster to another using timeouts and fails
```

.Failure to migrate an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project

The migration process fails when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]
For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira.

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

In the earlier versions of {product-short}, the PV was not removed when the OVA provider was deleted. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0, and the PV is automatically deleted when the OVA provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

.Fix for data being lost when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

> In the earlier versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot but not the latest data of the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot but not the latest data of the VM. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]
```
while re-reading this, the VM might not be running and we already say "when migrating a VM" - so suggesting a minor improvement here

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Data Center is nested inside a folder

In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM that is placed in a Data Center that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded. However, it failed when the Data Center was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

.The OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects files changes, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

> 

Author: ```suggestion

.Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when the migration failed to build the PVC when the destination storage class did not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lacked clear information to identify the reason for the failure. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]
```

.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is now available when migrating VMs with RHEL 6 guest operating system

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

> The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now

Author: ```suggestion
The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for {a-rhv-short}, {osp}, and {ocp-name} providers now
```

> The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for {a-rhv-short}, {osp}, and {ocp-name} providers now
> link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

Author: ```suggestion
The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for {a-rhv-short}, {osp}, and {ocp-name} providers now. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]
```

.When adding OVA provider a `ConnectionTestFailed` message appears

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder

In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM that is placed in a datacenter that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded. However, it failed when the datacenter was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

> .Migration of image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project no longer fails
> 
> In earlier releases of {project-short}, the migration of image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project failed. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, and the migration process now succeeds when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project. The conversion of a virtual machine snapshot as part of the migration runs with non-root privileges, and {name-ocp} does not automatically pick a non-root user for the pod that starts on the `default` project.. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system can start with network interfaces that are down

When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

.Leftover `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes the plan to stop in the `CopyDisks` phase

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

> .Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC
> 
> The migration fails to build the PVC when the destination storage class does not have a configured storage profile. The error logs lack clear information to identify the reason for the failure. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-928[(MTV-928)]
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira.

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

In the earlier versions of {product-short}, the PV was not removed when the OVA provider was deleted. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0, and the PV is automatically deleted when the OVA provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

.Fix for data being lost when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

In the earlier versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot but not the latest data of the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]

> .Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message
> 
> In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Firmware detection by virt-v2v

In earlier releases of {project-short}, a VM that was migrated from an OVA that did not include the firmware type in its OVF configuration, was set with UEFI. This was incorrect for VMs that were configured with BIOS. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, as {project-short} now consumes the firmware that is detected by `virt-v2v` during the conversion of the disks. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

.Creating a host secret requires validation of the secret before creation of the host

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when configuring a transfer network for vSphere hosts, the console plugin created the `Host` CR before creating its secret. The secret should be specified first in order to validate it before the `Host` CR is posted. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

.When adding OVA provider a `ConnectionTestFailed` message appears

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. If the message did not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status did not move to `Ready`, this meant that the provider had not been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]
```

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeded when it was directly under the `/vcenter`, but failed when it was stored inside a folder. As a result, the migration raised an error. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM that is placed in a datacenter that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded. However, it failed when the datacenter was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when you canceled and deleted a failed migration plan, and after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC were not deleted. You had to delete the pods and PVC manually. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster had to be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster had to be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, with validation being shown when migrating from versions of {ocp-name} before 4.13. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]
```

.Multiple storage domains from RHV were always mapped to a single storage class

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, multiple disks from different storage domains were always mapped to single storage class. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1008[(MTV-1008)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, multiple disks from different storage domains were always mapped to a single storage class, regardless of the storage mapping that was configured. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1008[(MTV-1008)]
```

.Firmware detection by virt-v2v

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, a `virt-v2v` that converted a guest also produced an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. The `forklift-controller` processed the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, a VM that was migrated from an OVA that did not include the firmware type in its OVF configuration, was set with UEFI. This was incorrect for VMs that were configured with BIOS. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, as {project-short} now consumes the firmware that is detected by `virt-v2v` during the conversion of the disks. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]
```

.Creating a host secret requires validation of the secret before creation of the host

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when creating a host secret, you had to validate the secret before creating the host. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when configuring a transfer network for vSphere hosts, the console plugin created the `Host` CR before creating its secret. The secret should be specified first in order to validate it before the `Host` CR is posted. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]
```

.When adding OVA provider a `ConnectionTestFailed` message appears

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. If the message did not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status did not move to `Ready`, this meant that the provider had not been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

> .`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0
> 
> In earlier releases of {project-short}, after upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returned the `Failure` status and an error message. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]

Author: ```suggestion
```

.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is now available when migrating VMs with RHEL 6 guest operating system

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

> .Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked
> 
> The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Migration of a VM with NVME disks from vSphere fails

When migrating a virtual machine (VM) with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails, and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

.Importing image-based VMs can fail

Migrating an image-based VM without the `virtual_size` field can fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-946)]

.Deleting migration plan does not remove temporary resources

Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it to clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

.Migrating VMs with independent persistent disk from VMware to OCP-V fail

Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disk from VMware to OCP-V fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]

.Migrating VM from one OCP-V cluster to another using timeouts and fails

> When trying to migrate VMs from one OCP-V cluster to another using {product-short}, the migration could timeout and fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1052[(MTV-1052)]

Author: ```suggestion
When the time to transfer the disks of a VM exceeds the timeout of the Export API in {ocp-name} the migration fails. The timeout of the Export API in {ocp-name} is set to 2 hours by default. You can increase the timeout to resolve this issue. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1052[(MTV-1052)]
```

.Guest operating system from vSphere might be missing

> The guest operating system may be missing for VMs from vSphere. vSphere stops reporting the operating system after not receiving updates from VMware tools after some time. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1046[(MTV-1046)]

Author: ```suggestion
When vSphere does not receive updates about the guest operating system from the VMware tools, it considers the information about the guest operating system to be outdated and ceases to report it. When this occurs, {project-short} is unaware of the guest operating system of the VM and is unable to associate it with the appropriate virtual machine preference or {ocp-name} template. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1046[(MTV-1046)]
```

> .{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes when getting a disk without datastore

Author: ```suggestion
.{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes when receiving a disk without a datastore
```

> The {product-short} `forklift-controller` pod crashes in a loop, and the product is unusable if vSphere provides disk with null datastore. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, in some rare cases, the VM was configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. In this situation, the `forklift-controller` crashed, rendering {project-short} unusable, as {project-short} was receiving such disks without their datastore. In {project-short} 2.6.0, {project-short} presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks, and the `forklift-controller` no longer crashes. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]
```

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira.

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

> In the previous versions of {product-short}, the PV was not removed when the OVA provider was deleted. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0, and the PV is automatically deleted when the OVA provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

Author: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {product-short}, the PV was not removed when the OVA provider was deleted. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0, and the PV is automatically deleted when the OVA provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]
```

.Fix for data being lost when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

> In the previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot but not the latest data of the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]

Author: ```suggestion
In the earlier versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot but not the latest data of the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]
```

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

.Migration from vSphere over a secure connection

You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the server that runs vCenter or ESXi, depending on the specified SDK endpoint of the vSphere provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530[(MTV-530)]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Migration to (or from) a remote {ocp-name} over a secure connection

You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the API server of a remote {ocp-name} cluster. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-728[(MTV-728)]
```

.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is now available when migrating VMs with RHEL 6 guest operating system

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for {a-rhv-short}, {osp}, and {ocp-name} providers now. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Validation of a specified VDDK image

{project-short} validates the availability of a VDDK image that is specified for a vSphere provider on the target {ocp-name} name as part of the validation of a migration plan. {project-short} also checks whether the `libvixDiskLib.so` symbolic link (symlink) exists within the image. If the validation fails, the migration plan cannot be started. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-618[(MTV-618)]
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add a warning and partial support for TPM

{project-short} presents a warning when attempting to migrate a VM that is set with a TPM device from {rhv} or vSphere. The migrated VM in {ocp-name} would be set with a TPM device but without the content of the TPM device on the source environment. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-378[(MTV-378)]
```

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

.Validation rules are now available for OVA

> The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA). link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-669[(MTV-669)]
```

.Unclear error status message for VM with no operating system

The error status message for a VM with no operating system on the *Plans* page of the web console does not describe the reason for the failure. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2008846[(BZ#22008846)]

.Migration of virtual machines with encrypted partitions fails during a conversion (vSphere only)

vSphere only: Migrations from {rhv-short} and {osp} do not fail, but the encryption key might be missing on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Migration fails during precopy/cutover while performing a snapshot operation on the source VM

Warm migration from {rhv-short} fails if a snapshot operation is triggered and running on the source VM at the same time as the migration is scheduled. The migration does not wait for the snapshot operation to finish. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-456[(MTV-456)]

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage class of type `hostPath`

When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, it might happen that a VM cannot be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

> .Warm migrations do not support guest operating systems

Reviewer: this needs to say that some guest operating systems are not supported, how about changing it back to how it was in the release notes of 2.5:
```suggestion
.Non-supported guest operating systems in warm migrations
```

.{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes when receiving a disk without a datastore

In some rare cases, the VM may be configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. MTV gets such disks without their datastore. Previously, the `forklift-controller` crashed in this situation, rendering {project-short} unusable. In {project-short} 2.6.0, {project-short} presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks, and the `forklift-controller` no longer crashes. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]

.Failure to migrate an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project

The migration process fails when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]
For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira.

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

> .Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Deleting an OVA provider automatically also deletes the PV
```

.Fix for data being lost when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

In the earlier versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot but not the latest data of the VM. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when you canceled and deleted a failed migration plan, and after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC were not deleted. You had to delete the pods and PVC manually. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

.{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster had to be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, with validation being shown when migrating from versions of {ocp-name} before 4.13. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster had to be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, with validation being shown when migrating from versions of {ocp-name} before 4.13. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]
```

//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

.Simplified the creation of vSphere providers

Previously, users had to specify a fingerprint when creating a vSphere provider. This is required to retrieve the fingerprint from the server that vCenter runs on. {project-short} no longer requires this fingerprint as an input but rather computes it from the specified certificate in case of secure connection, or automatically retrieves it from the server that runs vCenter/ESXi in case of insecure connection.
```

> .Migration from vSphere over a secure connection
> 
> You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the server that runs vCenter or ESXi, depending on the specified SDK endpoint of the vSphere provider. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530[(MTV-530)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530%5B(MTV-530)%5D)
> 
> .Migration from an ESXi server without going through vCenter
> 
> MTV enables the SDK endpoint of ESXi for a vSphere provider. You need to select ESXi as the Endpoint type and specify the URL of the SDK of the ESXi server. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514[(MTV-514)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514%5B(MTV-514)%5D)
> 
> .Migration of image-based VMs from {osp}
> 
> {project-short} supports migration of VMs that were created from images in {osp}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644[(MTV-644)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644%5B(MTV-644)%5D)
> 
> .Migration of VMs with Fibre Channel LUNs from {rhv}
> 
> {project-short} supports migrations of VMs that are set with Fibre Channel (FC) LUNs from {rhv}. As with other LUN disks, you need to ensure the {ocp-name} nodes have access to the FC LUNs. During the migrations, the FC LUNs are detached from the source VMs in {rhv} and attached to the migrated VMs in {ocp-name}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659[(MTV-659)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659%5B(MTV-659)%5D)
> 
> .Preserve CPU types of VMs that are migrated from {rhv}
> 
> {project-short} sets the CPU type of migrated VMs in {ocp-name} with their custom CPU type in {rhv}, if a custom CPU type is set for a VM. In addition, a new option was added to migration plans that are set with {rhv} as a source provider to preserve the original CPU types of VMs that are migrated from {rhv}. When this option is selected, {project-short} identifies the CPU type that would be set based on the cluster configuration and sets this CPU type for the migrated VMs, unless a custom CPU is set. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-547[(MTV-547)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-547%5B(MTV-547)%5D)
> 

Author: ```suggestion

```

> .Redesigned the migration plan creation wizard and dialog

Author: ```suggestion
.Redesigned the migration plan creation dialog
```

.Guest operating system from vSphere might be missing

When vSphere does not receive updates about the guest operating system from the VMware tools, it considers the information about the guest operating system to be outdated and ceases to report it. When this occurs, {project-short} is unaware of the guest operating system of the VM and is unable to associate it with the appropriate virtual machine preference or {ocp-name} template. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1046[(MTV-1046)]

.{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes when receiving a disk without a datastore

In some rare cases, the VM may be configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. MTV gets such disks without their datastore. Previously, the `forklift-controller` crashed in this situation, rendering {project-short} unusable. In {project-short} 2.6.0, {project-short} presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks, and the `forklift-controller` no longer crashes. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]

> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

.Redesigned the migration plan creation dialog

> The user interface console has improved the process of creating a migration plan.
> The new migration plan dialog enables faster creation of migration plans.

Author: ```suggestion
The user interface console has improved the process of creating a migration plan. The new migration plan dialog enables faster creation of migration plans.
```

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.

[id="new-features-and-enhancements-26_{context}"]
== New features and enhancements

This part provides features and enhancements introduced in {project-full} 2.6:

.Migration from vSphere over a secure connection

> You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the server that runs vCenter or ESXi, depending on the specified SDK endpoint of the vSphere provider. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530[(MTV-530)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530%5B(MTV-530)%5D)

Author: ```suggestion
You can now specify a CA certificate that would be used to authenticate the server that runs vCenter or ESXi, depending on the specified SDK endpoint of the vSphere provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-530[(MTV-530)]

.Migration from an ESXi server without going through vCenter

> MTV enables the SDK endpoint of ESXi for a vSphere provider. You need to select ESXi as the Endpoint type and specify the URL of the SDK of the ESXi server. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514[(MTV-514)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514%5B(MTV-514)%5D)

Author: ```suggestion
MTV enables the SDK endpoint of ESXi for a vSphere provider. You need to select ESXi as the Endpoint type and specify the URL of the SDK of the ESXi server. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-514[(MTV-514)]
```

.Migration of image-based VMs from {osp}

> {project-short} supports migration of VMs that were created from images in {osp}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644[(MTV-644)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644%5B(MTV-644)%5D)

Author: ```suggestion
{project-short} supports migration of VMs that were created from images in {osp}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-644[(MTV-644)] 
```

.Migration of VMs with Fibre Channel LUNs from {rhv}

> {project-short} supports migrations of VMs that are set with Fibre Channel (FC) LUNs from {rhv}. As with other LUN disks, you need to ensure the {ocp-name} nodes have access to the FC LUNs. During the migrations, the FC LUNs are detached from the source VMs in {rhv} and attached to the migrated VMs in {ocp-name}. link:[https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659[(MTV-659)]](https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659%5B(MTV-659)%5D)

Author: ```suggestion
{project-short} supports migrations of VMs that are set with Fibre Channel (FC) LUNs from {rhv}. As with other LUN disks, you need to ensure the {ocp-name} nodes have access to the FC LUNs. During the migrations, the FC LUNs are detached from the source VMs in {rhv} and attached to the migrated VMs in {ocp-name}. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-659[(MTV-659)]
```

//
// * documentation/doc-Release_notes/master.adoc

[id="rn-26_{context}"]
= {project-full} 2.6

You can use {the-lc} {project-first} to migrate virtual machines from the following source providers to {virt} destination providers:

* VMware vSphere
* {rhv-full} ({rhv-short})
* {osp}
* Open Virtual Appliances (OVAs) that were created by VMware vSphere
* Remote {virt} clusters

The release notes describe technical changes, new features and enhancements, known issues, and resolved issues.

[id="technical-changes-26_{context}"]
== Technical changes

This release has the following technical changes:

.Simplified the creation of vSphere providers

> Previously, users had to specify a fingerprint when creating a vSphere provider. This is required to retrieve the fingerprint from the server that vCenter runs on. {project-short} no longer requires this fingerprint as an input but rather computes it from the specified certificate in case of secure connection, or automatically retrieves it from the server that runs vCenter/ESXi in case of insecure connection.

Author: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, users had to specify a fingerprint when creating a vSphere provider. This is required to retrieve the fingerprint from the server that vCenter runs on. {project-short} no longer requires this fingerprint as an input but rather computes it from the specified certificate in case of secure connection, or automatically retrieves it from the server that runs vCenter/ESXi in case of insecure connection.
```

.Validation for RHEL 6 guest operating system is now available when migrating VMs with RHEL 6 guest operating system

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for {a-rhv-short}, {osp}, and {ocp-name} providers now. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

> .{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods
> 
> The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> Do we need to keep this section?
> 
> [id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
> === Open Virtual Appliance Provider
> 
> The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]
> 
> 
> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

Do we need to keep this section?

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

.Validation rules are now available for OVA

The validation service includes default validation rules for virtual machines from the Open Virtual Appliance (OVA).

> ////

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> ////

Author: ```suggestion
```

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder

In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeded when it was directly under the `/vcenter`, but failed when it was stored inside a folder. As a result, the migration raised an error. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

.Migration of image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project no longer fails

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the migration of image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project failed. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0, and the migration process now succeeds when migrating an image-based VM from {osp} to the `default` project. The conversion of a virtual machine snapshot as part of the migration runs with non-root privileges, and {name-ocp} does not automatically pick a non-root user for the pod that starts on the `default` project.. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-964[(MTV-964)]

> 

Author: ```suggestion

.The OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files

The OVA inventory watcher detects files changes, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]
```

.`virtual machine preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates

The `virtual machine preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Custom mappings of guest operating system type to virtual machine preference can be configured using `config` maps. This is in order to use custom virtual machine preferences, or to support more guest operating system types.

.Full support for migration from OVA

Migration from OVA moves from being a Technical Preview and is now a fully supported feature.

.The VM is posted with its desired `Running` state

{project-short} creates the VM with its desired `Running` state on the target provider, instead of creating the VM and then running it as an additional operation. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

> 
> 
> .{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere
> 
> .{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere. However, the CDI does runs `pvc-init` pods as they are included in the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation on the data volume.

Author: ```suggestion
.{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods when migrating from vSphere

{project-short} no longer runs `pvc-init` pods during cold migration from a vSphere provider to the {ocp-name} cluster that {project-short} is deployed on. However, in other flows where data volumes are used, they are set with the `cdi.kubevirt.io/storage.bind.immediate.requested` annotation, and CDI runs first-consume pods for storage classes with volume binding mode `WaitForFirstConsumer`.
```

link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

.{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

////
Do we need to keep this section?

[id="ova-provider-26_{context}"]
=== Open Virtual Appliance Provider

The following are new features for the {project-short} Open Virtual Appliance (OVA) provider. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-690[(MTV-690)]

> The OVA inventory watcher detects deleted files
> 
> The OVA inventory watcher detects changes in files, including deleted files. Updates from the `ova-provider-server` pod are now sent every five minutes to the `forklift-controller` pod that updates the inventory. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-733[(MTV-733)]

Author: ```suggestion
```

The new migration plan dialog enables faster creation of migration plans.

It includes only the minimal settings that are required, while you can confirgure advanced settings separately. The new dialog also provides defaults for network and storage mappings, where applicable. The new dialog can also be invoked from the the `Provider` > `Virtual Machines` tab, after selecting the virtual machines to migrate. It also better aligns with the user experience in the OCP console.

.`virtual machine preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates

The `virtual machine preferences` have replaced {ocp-name} templates. {project-short} currently falls back to using {ocp-name} templates when a relevant preference is not available.

Custom mappings of guest operating system type to virtual machine preference can be configured using `config` maps. This is in order to use custom virtual machine preferences, or to support more guest operating system types.

.Full support for migration from OVA

Migration from OVA moves from being a Technical Preview and is now a fully supported feature.

.The VM is posted with its desired `Running` state

> {project-short} shows each VM's migration `Running` state during the migration. This single `Running` operation replaces two previous operations, `Create/Post VM` and Run VM`.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]

Author: ```suggestion
{project-short} creates the VM with its desired `Running` state on the target provider, instead of creating the VM and then running it as an additional operation. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-794[(MTV-794)]
```

.The `must-gather` logs can now be loaded only by using the CLI

The {product-short} web console can no longer download logs. With this update, you must download `must-gather` logs by using CLI commands. For more information, see link:https://github.com/openshift/must-gather-operator[Must Gather Operator].

.Migrated VMs can now be reviewed and configured

> The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization.

Author: The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help with additional modifications in {ocp-name} Virtualization.

> The {project-short} web console now displays the name and migration status of each virtual machine (VM). The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help further changes in {ocp-name} Virtualization.

Author: ```suggestion
The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help with additional modifications in {ocp-name} Virtualization.
```

> .Migrated VMs can now be reviewed and configured
> 
> The migrated VMs have the `app: <vmname>` label to help with additional modifications in {ocp-name} Virtualization.
> The console displayed those details before this change. The only difference is that the VM is set with the `app: <vmname>` labels, which makes it easier to make further configurations related to the VM on the target cluster
> link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-843[(MTV-843)]

Author: ```suggestion
```

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 9 does not support RHEL 6 as a guest operating system. Therefore, RHEL 6 is not supported in {ocp-name} Virtualization. With this update, a validation of RHEL 6 guest operating system was added to {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-413[(MTV413)]

.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked

The `Export API` function in {ocp-name} Virtualization now exposes VM manifests from {ocp-name} 4.13. Therefore, source {ocp} clusters must be version 4.13 or later. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-734[(MTV-734)]

.Automatic retrieval of CA certificates for the provider's URL in the console

The ability to retrieve CA certificates, which was available in previous versions, has been restored. The `vSphere Verify certificate` option is in the `add-provider` dialog. This option was removed in the transition to the {ocp} console and has now been added to the console. This functionality is also available for RHV, OpenStack and OpenShift providers now
link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-737[(MTV-737)]

> .{project-short} UI plugin now uses only a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API `fetch` methods

Author: @ahadas - please can you give us a bit more information about this ticket?
Thanks

The UI plugin now uses a dynamic plugin for the SDK REST API when using the `fetch` methods. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-616[(MTV-616)]

> 

Author: @ahadas - please can you give us a bit more information about this ticket?
Thanks

.Plans that failed to migrate VMs can now be edited

With this update, you can edit plans that have failed to migrate any VMs. Some plans fail or are canceled because of incorrect network and storage mappings. You can now edit these plans until they succeed. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-779[(MTV-779)]

> ////

Author: @ahadas - do we need to keep this section or can we delete it, please?

.Unable to schedule migrated VM with multiple disks to more than one storage class of type `hostPath`

When migrating a VM with multiple disks to more than one storage classes of type `hostPath`, it might happen that a VM cannot be scheduled. Workaround: Use shared storage on the target {ocp} cluster.

.Warm migrations do not support guest operating systems

Warm migrations and migrations to remote {ocp} clusters from vSphere do not support the same guest operating systems that are supported in cold migrations and migrations to the local {ocp} cluster. RHEL 8 and RHEL 9 might cause this limitation.
See link:https://access.redhat.com/articles/1351473[Converting virtual machines from other hypervisors to KVM with virt-v2v in RHEL 7, RHEL 8, and RHEL 9] for the list of supported guest operating systems.

.VMs from vSphere with RHEL 9 guest operating system can start with network interfaces that are down

When migrating VMs that are installed with RHEL 9 as guest operating system from vSphere, the network interfaces of the VMs could be disabled when they start in {ocp-name} Virtualization. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-491[(MTV-491)]

> .Leftover `ovirtvolumepopulator` from failed migration causes the plan to stop in the `CopyDisks` phase

Reviewer: this is fixed in 2.6.0

An earlier failed migration can leave an outdated `ovirtvolumepopulator` in the project of a new plan for the same VM. The `CreateDataVolumes` phase does not create populator PVCs when transitioning to `CopyDisks`, causing the `CopyDisks` phase to stay indefinitely. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-929[(MTV-929)]

> .Unclear error message when Forklift fails to build or create a PVC

Reviewer: this is also fixed

Author: move to Resolved Issues or delete, please

.Migration of a VM with NVME disks from vSphere fails

When migrating a virtual machine (VM) with NVME disks from vSphere, the migration process fails, and the Web Console shows that the `Convert image to kubevirt` stage is `running` but did not finish successfully. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-963[(MTV-963)]

.Importing image-based VMs can fail

Migrating an image-based VM without the `virtual_size` field can fail on a block mode storage class. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-946[(MTV-946)]

.Deleting migration plan does not remove temporary resources

Deleting a migration plan does not remove temporary resources such as importer pods, conversion pods, config maps, secrets, failed VMs and data volumes. You must archive a migration plan before deleting it to clean up the temporary resources. link:https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2018974[(BZ#2018974)]

.Migrating VMs with independent persistent disk from VMware to OCP-V fail

Migrating Virtual Machines with independent persistent disk from VMware to OCP-V fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-993[(MTV-993)]

> .Migrating VM from one OCP-V cluster to another using timeouts and fails

Author: @ahadas - please can you give us a bit more information about this ticket?
Thanks

When trying to migrate VMs from one OCP-V cluster to another using {product-short}, the migration could timeout and fail. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1052[(MTV-1052)]

> .Guest operating system from vSphere might be missing

Author: @ahadas - please can you give us a bit more information about this ticket?
Thanks

Reviewer: when vSphere doesn't get updates about the guest operating system from the VMware tools, it considers the information about the guest operating system a stale data and stops reporting it. when this happens, MTV doesn't know the guest operating system of the VM and doesn't map it to its corresponding virtual machine preference or {ocp-name} template.

The guest operating system may be missing for VMs from vSphere. vSphere stops reporting the operating system after not receiving updates from VMware tools after some time. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1046[(MTV-1046)]

> .{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes in a loop after configuring vSphere provider

Author: @ahadas - please can you give us a bit more information about this ticket?
Thanks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.{product-short} forklift-controller pod crashes when getting a disk without datastore
```
In some rare cases, the VM may be configured with a disk that is placed on a datastore that is no longer available in vSphere. MTV gets such disks without their datastore. Previously, forklift-controller crashed in this situation, rendering {project-short} unusable. Now, MTV presents a critical validation for VMs with such disks and forklift-controller no longer crashes.

The {product-short} `forklift-controller` pod crashes in a loop, and the product is unusable if vSphere provides disk with null datastore. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1029[(MTV-1029)]

For a complete list of all known issues in this release, see the list of link:https://issues.redhat.com/issues/?filter=12430275[Known Issues] in Jira.

[id="resolved-issues-26_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

This release has the following resolved issues:

.Deleting a provider automatically also deletes the PV

In the previous versions of {product-short}, the PV was not removed when the OVA provider was deleted. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0, and the PV is automatically deleted when the OVA provider is deleted. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-848[(MTV-848)]

> .Data loss is no longer possible when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Fix for data being lost when migrating VMware VMs with snapshots
```
I'm a bit afraid to say "Data loss is no longer possible" - we fixed a bug and we hope it's the only bug that can lead to this

> In the previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VMware VM that had a snapshot, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not in the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous versions of {product-short}, when migrating a VM that has a snapshot from VMware, the VM that was created in {ocp-name} Virtualization contained the data in the snapshot, but not the latest data of the running VM that was migrated. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0.  link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-447[(MTV-447)]
```

.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message

In the previous versions of {product-short}, when adding an OVA provider, `The provider is not ready - ConnectionTestFailed` error message appeared, even though the provider was eventually created. The message disappeared after a few seconds. This has been resolved in {product-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

.Canceling and deleting a failed migration plan does not clean up the `populate` pods and PVC

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when you canceled and deleted a failed migration plan, and after creating a PVC and spawning the `populate` pods, the `populate` pods and PVC were not deleted. You had to delete the pods and PVC manually. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-678[(MTV-678)]

> .{ocp} to {ocp} migrations require the cluster version to be 4.13 or later

Reviewer: this item already appear above as `.Migrations from {ocp-name} versions before 4.13 are now blocked`, I think it's better be documented as a resolved issue than a feature, but in both cases it should say something about a validation that is now shown when trying to migration from {ocp-nane} < 4.13

In earlier releases of {project-short}, when migrating from {ocp} to {ocp}, the version of the source provider cluster had to be {ocp} version 4.13 or later. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-809[(MTV-809)]

> .Multiple storage domains are always mapped to a single storage class

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Multiple storage domains from RHV were always mapped to a single storage class
```

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, multiple disks from different storage domains were always mapped to single storage class. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1008[(MTV-1008)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, multiple disks from different storage domains were always mapped to single storage class, regardless of the storage mapping that was configured. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-1008[(MTV-1008)]
```

.Firmware detection by virt-v2v

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, a `virt-v2v` that converted a guest also produced an OFV with configuration based on the virtual disk, such as driver or firmware. The `forklift-controller` processed the produced OFV's status of the conversion pod. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, a VM that was migrated from an OVA that did not include the firmware type in its OVF configuration, was set with UEFI. This was incorrect for VMs that were configured with BIOS. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. Now {project-short} consumes the firmware that is detected by `virt-v2v` during the conversion of the disks. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-759[(MTV-759)]
```

.Creating a host secret requires validation of the secret before creation of the host

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when creating a host secret, you had to validate the secret before creating the host. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when configured a transfer network for vSphere hosts, the console plugin created the `Host` CR before creating its secret. The secret should be specified first in order to validate it before the `Host` CR is posted. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-868[(MTV-868)]
```

> .When adding OVA provider a `ConnectionTestFailed` message appears

Reviewer: it already appears in the resolved issues section (.Adding an OVA provider no longer displays the `ConnectionTestFailed` error message), this item can be dropped

Author: Deleted earlier entry, polished your text and changed

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. If the message did not disappear after a few minutes and the provider status did not move to `Ready`, this meant that the provider had not been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, when adding an OVA provider, the error message `ConnectionTestFailed` instantly appeared, although the provider had been created successfully. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-671[(MTV-671)]
```

.RHV provider `ConnectionTestSucceeded` True response from the wrong URL

In earlier releases of {project-short}, the `ConnectionTestSucceeded` condition was set to `True` even when the URL was different than the API endpoint for the RHV Manager. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-740[(MTV-740)]

> .`ForkliftController` status shows `Failure` after upgrading from {project-short} 2.4.2 to {project-short} 2.5.0

Reviewer: this needs to drop

In earlier releases of {project-short}, after upgrading {project-short} from version 2.4.2 to 2.5.0, the `ForkliftController` returned the `Failure` status and an error message. This issue has been resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-702[(MTV-702)]

.Migration does not fail when a vSphere Datacenter is nested inside a folder

> In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a vSphere Datacenter succeeded when it was directly under the `/vcenter`, but failed when it was stored inside a folder. As a result, the migration raised an error. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In earlier releases of {project-short}, migrating a VM  that is placed in a Datacenter that is stored directly under the `/vcenter` in vSphere succeeded, but failed when the Datacenter was stored inside a folder. This issue was resolved in {project-short} 2.6.0. link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/MTV-796[(MTV-796)]
```

> .Migration of image-based VM from {osp} to `default` project no longer fails

Reviewer: this actually now happens and should be documented as a known issue
